[MUSIC]
Welcome back to the course
on approximation algorithms.
In this chapter,
we will study the set cover problem.
This will be an opportunity for us to
explore a new technique in the design of
approximation algorithms using
the solution of a linear program and
rounding it using randomized rounding.
This will be our first randomized
algorithm in this course.
But first, let us give the definition
of the set cover problem.
Input and output.
What is the input?
The input to the set cover problem
is collection of elements.
Here we have one, two, three, four,
five, six elements in a universe.
And then,
a collection of subsets of these elements.
For example, the blue subset contains
both the orange and the green elements.
Each subset has a cost.
For example, what kind of
situation does this correspond to?
Perhaps you want to buy
a certain set of items.
You want to buy some various
ingredients for cooking, let's say.
And then,
you know that if you go to this store,
you will get this
particular set of elements.
If you go to that store,
you'll get another set of foods.
That store, another set of foods.
With certain prices in each set.
And then you have to decide which stores
to visit, which bunches of items to buy.
So that in the end you
have everything you need.
So, you have these elements,
subsets of costs and
the output is a collection of subsets.
You choose certain of the subsets
of the input, not all of them but
a few, so as to cover all the elements.
Every element in the universe
must be covered,
must be in at least one of
the subsets that you choose.
And your goal is to minimize
the cost of the sets that you buy.
For example here,
you bought three sets perhaps,
maybe, the three sets
that are slightly shaded.
And these three sets have cost 4,
2, and 2, for a total cost of 8.
And you can verify that every one
of the elements is covered by at
least one of the sets.
Now, does this ring a bell?
Isn't this kind of familiar?
Yes, of course.
Even if you don't understand
anything to what I'm saying,
you recognize one word, cover.
We've seen this word before.
Vertex cover, vertex cover, set cover.
Indeed, these two problems are closely
related, and what is the relation?
The vertex cover is a special
case of the set cover problem.
The set cover problem is a generalization
of the vertex cover problem.
Let us see why.
This is an instance of
the vertex cover problem.
Graph vertices, edges, you have to
pick vertices to cover every edge.
It was the one that was in the picture
with Charlie Brown in the first chapter.
We want to cover all edges
with the fewest vertices.
Cover edges, so,
the edges are the elements.
Using vertices, so
that vertices are the sets.
What is the set associated to a vertex?
It is the set of all the edges
adjacent to that vertex.
All the edges that touch that vertex.
What is the cost of a set?
If you just want the fewest vertices,
then each set has cost one and you want
to minimize the total cost, ie, minimize
the total number of sets that you choose.
So in this way,
you could reformulate the vertex cover
problem as a a set cover problem.
The set cover problem is more general.
So it is at least as difficult
as the vertex cover problem.
And so, we will now study an algorithm to
solve approximately the set cover problem.
How did we solve vertex cover?
We wrote a linear programming
relaxation and solved it by rounding.
So, they suggest that here we should use
a similar approach, integer program.
Our integer program will be a natural
extension of the integer program for
vertex cover.
So, let me now give you an integer
programming formulation of the set cover
problem.
Integer program, we need variables.
In the case of vertex cover,
we had one variable for each vertex,
which can be interpreted to mean
whether or not we take this vertex.
In the set cover problem,
we now have one variable for
each possible subset s given in the input.
The interpretation is,
x sub s will be 0 or 1.
1 if s is put in the cover,
and 0 if it isn't constraint.
As in the vertex cover problem,
there's one constraint for each element.
In the vertex cover problem there
was one constraint for each edge.
Seeing that for each edge you had
to choose one or the other or
both of its endpoints and
put them in the cover.
Here, we have one constraint for
each element,
saying the element must be covered.
That is, if you look at all the x sub s
variables, for all the sets containing s,
at least one of them
must be in your cover.
At least one of them must be equal to 1.
If you sum the x sub s over all those
sets, the sum must be at least 1.
Every vector x sub s that satisfies
these constraints is a set cover.
For every set cover,
there is a corresponding vector
where each x sub s is 0 or 1.
That satisfies all the constraints.
So with those variables and
constraints, we have captured
every possible feasible solution.
And what is the objective?
The objective is to minimize the cost.
Every set has a cost.
Let's call it c sub s.
We want to minimize the sum
of s of c sub s, x sub s.
This, when x sub s is 0 or
1, is exactly the sum of
the costs of all the sets,
such that x sub s is 1.
It is the sum of all the costs,
of all the sets that are in the cover.
So with this, we have an integer
program for the vertex cover problem.
Now let us continue imitating
our solution for vertex cover.
Linear programming relaxation.
It is the same as the integer
program except that instead of
positing that x sub s has to be 0 or
1, we write a constraint that x sub
s has to be a real number in
the closed interval 0, 1.
That is linear programming relaxation for
set cover.
Next step, if we try to extend
vertex cover, rounding up.
How did we round in vertex cover?
We said for every variable x
sub u associated to vertex u,
we round x sub u to 1.
If and only if,
in the solution of the linear program,
the real variable x sub u is at least 1/2.
What happens if we do this here?
We can do the same.
We can say, write the linear
programming for set cover.
Solve it, and then each x sub s,
if it's at least 1/2 we round it to 1.
But that fails.
It fails in the sense that it fails
to give a solution that corresponds
to a set cover.
It may fail.
Let me show this to you by an example.
We take the same input
that I discussed earlier.
This input.
I claimed that this vector of a variable x
sub s is a solution to the linear program.
It satisfies all the constraints.
Why?
Look at the yellow element.
It's covered 1/3 by this set,
1/3 by that set, 1/3 by that set.
Total, 100%.
Green, 2/3, 1/3, 1/2.
Total, more than 100%.
It's covered and well covered.
Yellow, 1/3, 1/3, 1/3.
It's covered to 100%.
Orange, 1/3 and 2/3.
We're good.
Blue, 1/3, 1/3, and 1/3.
Again, we're good.
Purple, and so on.
For every element the sum of the x
sub s values is at least one.
And so,
we a solution to the linear program here.
Now what happens when we round it to 1?
Look at the values of x sub s.
2/3 is rounded up to 1.
1/2 is rounded up to 1.
All the other variables, they're all
at 1/3, they all get rounded down to 0.
What's going to happen now?
Look at the yellow element.
It belonged to three sets.
The values of the three sets were 1/3,
1/3, 1/3.
This gets rounded down to zero,
zero, zero.
None of these three sets
belongs to the output cover.
The yellow element will not be covered.
Using this rounding here,
we will not get a feasibly
set cover if we round this vector
x sub s of x sub s values.
So what can we do?
Let's lower the threshold, to what?
To 1/3, obviously here.
If we lower the threshold to 1/3,
then all of the variables here,
they do get rounded to one.
And so the result is a feasible set cover.
However, it is easy to
imagine another input,
where there's a feasible solution where
every x sub s has value one-quarter.
For example, let's say that we
have a square, four elements.
Or maybe even a pentagon, five elements.
All possible subsets of size two.
And each set, let's say that in x
sub s it has value one-quarter.
Five elements,
all possible subsets of size two.
Each x sub s has value one-quarter.
Then each element belongs to four subsets.
Each of them has value one-quarter.
One-quarter plus one-quarter plus
one-quarter plus one-quarter, that's one.
Every element if covered, but
every variable has value one-quarter.
So if you threshold is one-third,
then, everything will be rounded to
zero and this will not work again.
If you try to lower the threshold,
you have the same problem again and
again and again.
For every choice of a threshold,
there exists an instance of set cover and
a vector x sub s.
[INAUDIBLE] rounding using
that threshold will fail.
Will give you something which is
not a set cover, which does not
satisfy all the constraints,
which does not cover all the elements.
So, we need to devise
a better rounding now.
We need to devise a rounding that
will not have a fixed threshold,
that will somehow adapt to our
output of the linear program.
How do we do that?
We use randomized rounding.
We have seen the definition of set cover.
We have seen a linear programming
relaxation for set cover.
We have seen how the rounding used for
the cover does not extend
to solve this problem.
Now we are going to see a randomized
rounding solution for a set cover.